(soft music)
Marc Allen is the publisher of New World Library
which publishes the work of a number of authors
I've already interviewed.
The reason I wanted to speak with him
is because I noticed a plaque on his office wall that said
best business to work for in a recent poll.
That means there has to be a conscious boss at the top
and it turned out that Marc was the boss.
i absolutely loved this conversation
with a man who is wise, quirky,
and by his own admission, lazy.
Nonetheless, very successful in the true meaning of the word
and I believe he has something to teach us.
One of the reasons I'm so happy to talk to you
is because when we come in here,
into New World Library, I noticed there's a
little plaque at the entryway.
It talks about how you've been voted
best business to work for.
And that always impresses me
because it means you're walking your talk
and you're doing something right
and that's what encouraged me to want to
read about your personal story as a publisher.
And I've interviewed a lot of your authors.
And why don't we take it off from the early part
of your life where your life looked
nothing like it did now.
You talk about how you had the
opposite of the Midas touch going in your life.
Right.
(interviewer laughs)
In my 20s, yes, I had the opposite of the Midas touch.
Everything I touched fell apart.
I was born with something, or very early on
I got something that's been very good
and served me very well.
I knew it was important doing what I loved.
My dad lobbied that I should go into business.
I knew that was not what I wanted to do.
I didn't love the idea of going into business.
I wanted to be an actor when I was a teenager,
and a musician.
And I had a band and did theater,
so I was a theater major in college
and then joined a theater company that fell apart
and joined another theater company that fell apart.
And then I wandered around, I went to a Zen center
and got kicked out for breaking the rules.
There were so many rules.
And I wandered around the spiritual smorgasbord
of Berkeley we called it
in the late 60s, early 70s, mid 70s.
And ended up having a rock band
and that fell apart.
And then I turned 30.
You had another couple jobs in there
that you didn't do well at.
As I recall, dishwasher, busboy, got fired, too slow.
Yes. Many short term jobs.
I lasted two days as a busboy, a dishwasher,
because I was too slow.
He wanted me to work so fast.
He wanted me to dry spoons like, shoo shoo shoo,
for minimum wage, you know.
Except all the desserts I could eat,
that was my perk, desserts.
But no, I didn't last, I lasted a day as a gardener.
I got fired as a typesetter, the one skill I had
was typesetting I'd learned at Dharma Press,
the Tibetan Center Press, I'd learned how to typeset.
And so I got a job as a typesetter
but then I got fired for not showing up on time.
I'm not a morning person, I never was.
I don't do mornings very well.
I just got up for you, I probably look like I just got up,
and it's noon, right, so.
What's interesting, I'm hearing a theme here.
First of all you say I was blessed with knowing
to do what I loved, but everything
you tried to do that you loved seemed to fall apart on you.
Right. Exactly.
So I had a very important teaching
which has served me well over the years,
I knew it was important to do what I loved.
What I didn't have was how to make it work
financially at all.
I woke up 30 in a total state of shock
the day I turned 30.
Realized I wasn't a kid anymore.
Somehow it was cool to be a poverty case in my 20s.
But at 30, that's this voice said you are 30,
you're not a kid anymore.
It's time to look at your life.
And I spent most of the day pacing back and forth.
I had a little one room slum apartment in Oakland,
65 bucks a month rent.
Which you usually had a hard time
scrounging up.
Right, scrounging, that's a word we used all the time,
scrounging, I gotta scrounge up another
20 bucks for rent here.
I remember thinking it was almost magical
how every month I would just get my 65 bucks together.
Every month, because that's what I was visualizing,
I need 65 bucks.
My friend Shakti Gawain, she remembers me
sitting up in the morning saying
how can I get a buck and a quarter together for a latte?
And that was my visualization for the morning.
I need a buck and a quarter.
So you were manifesting exactly what you
wanted and needed.
Yes, I was, I was manifesting
exactly what I wanted and needed, yes, it's true.
And then at age 30 I decided to raise the bar a little bit.
A little. (laughs)
I paced up and down and I remembered,
I'd also had a disastrous back to the land experiment
when I was about 22 that lasted six months.
I don't know what we were doing,
we moved up to southwest Oregon in September
with no buildings on the land or anything.
And winter hit and it was the coldest, wettest,
worst winter of my life.
We finally, I gave up on that.
But I remember the day I turned 30
that one night during that back to the land experiment
we were sitting around a fire
and this couple, we had kind of a strange couple there
who used to teach church camp.
They went to church camp every year,
they were real active in their church.
And they said, let's play this game we play at church camp.
Let's imagine fie years have passed
and everything has gone as well as you could imagine,
what would your life look like?
And we went around the circle,
sitting around a fire outside,
and everybody spoke.
I don't remember a word of what I said.
So it obviously had not impact whatsoever in my life.
But the day I turned 30 I remembered that.
And I thought, this is a good exercise to do,
this is what I should do.
But this time I took a sheet of paper
and I wrote, Ideal Scene, at the top.
And I dared to imagine my ideal life.
As soon as I started doubts and fears
just started assaulting me.
Oh that's way too much Marc.
You? Dreaming all these things?
But I was amazed what spilled out,
it was I have a successful publishing company.
I had no money, I had no family support financially.
I was a total poverty case.
I'd had no interest in business,
I knew nothing about business.
A friend reminded me a while ago,
he remembered me walking along a beach saying to him,
I don't know a thing about business.
What do banks do anyway?
I had no idea what a bank did.
How they could build all these big buildings
and how they made money, I had no idea.
And it wasn't until I decided, okay,
I'd start a publishing company.
Which just came out of nowhere, right?
Out of nowhere, I was amazed.
It's like, where did that even bubble up from
into your consciousness?
Yeah, I don't know exactly.
I'd worked some at Dharma Press,
I was at a Tibetan center in Berkeley.
So I saw what a publishing company was.
Otherwise I wouldn't have even known
what it was or what they did.
But I had this, when I dared dream my ideal
I had this immediate picture of
I want to write books, I'd never written a book.
But I don't want to be in the powerless position
of going to all these publishers saying
please publish my book and have them say
they want to change it and edit it.
I didn't want that.
I knew my dream, when I dared dream my ideal,
was I had this company that would publish
whatever I wrote and publish all my friends,
and it cruised along smoothly, it was very successful.
Of course my doubts and fears said, you?
Look, everything you've touched has fallen apart.
You've been a complete failure
repeatedly at everything you've attempted.
Those were my doubts and fears.
But I dared dream my ideal and I wrote it down.
And I thought it through and I even put
what has become maybe my unique contribution to humanity,
I put not only do I have success as a writer,
as a musician, creating a beautiful company
and having a big white house on a hill
in Marin County,
I had a little slum apartment in Oakland,
not only do I have all that but I also have a life of ease,
I don't work too hard.
I love musician's hours and actor's hours.
We never started a thing til one in the afternoon.
And we usually were late for that so,
1:30 or 2 you'd get going, you know.
That works with my biorhythm for sure.
So that's what I wanted, a life of ease and success.
My doubts and fears said absolutely impossible.
It's never been done, you've gotta work
60 to 80 hours a week.
I had these, I was assaulted by doubts and fears.
But I paced up and down and one way I got around them,
I remembered hearing about Buckminster Fuller.
People had told me he used to lecture in the 60s and 70s,
and he looked at his life as an experiment, he said.
He decided, he said when he was in his 20s
he came to a point where he decided
to either commit suicide or look at his life
as this unique experiment.
And fortunately he chose the experiment.
Fortunately for all of us.
For all of us.
It really helped me out, it was critical.
Because I just grabbed hold of that word,
and i said to my doubts and fears, let me experiment.
Let me go for my dream but in my own lazy way.
Meaning, I work when I feel like it,
which is afternoons and evenings.
I don't do mornings, I don't do Mondays.
Mondays is a moon day, people are emotional,
that's the worst day to start a work week.
But did you work Saturday Sunday?
Sometimes. Never Sunday, no.
Sunday was always just rest, day of rest.
So mostly it was a Tuesday through Friday,
maybe Saturday, sometimes.
Tuesday through Friday, yeah.
In fact, what evolved over the years,
I just do Tuesday through Friday afternoon.
And Friday's even kind of a swing day
where I sometimes take off.
And then Saturday I often write or do something else.
But I never do anything on Sunday
except family stuff.
And Monday is my day, I never have any plans.
It's my day alone.
It's my favorite day of the week.
I wake up with nothing to do.
So some days I do a lot
when the energy's there.
Other Mondays I just sleep all day
or relax, or hang out with my cats, or...
So cut to, from your 30th birthday,
just really briefly here because then we have to go back
to a few decades later.
Well, and it didn't take that long.
No.
You were living your dream.
Right. It took five years
because I didn't know what I was doing,
but it took five years for me to hit my financial low
where I was 65 thousand in credit card debt.
Worse off than you're not scrounging up
65 dollars a month.
It was way worse, yes.
Oh that's how I got around my doubts and fears,
I said to them let me look at it at as an experiment
to go for my dreams but do it in my own lazy way.
And my doubts and fears said impossible,
and I said, look, if it doesn't work
I'll be no worse off than I am right now.
I was totally broke.
And they had to agree, well yeah,
it couldn't get much worse.
Well I found out it could get worse.
In five years I was 65 thousand in credit card debt
and my company was on the verge of bankruptcy.
Our distributor that we had been
one of the fore founders of, collapsed
and didn't pay us for six months of sales.
That's a hit.
That's a hit, that's a really bad hit.
And we were virtually just hanging in there
just because we had a little bit of direct mail going.
And it was just enough to pay the rent
and it was just marginal.
And personally I was 65 thousand in credit card debt
and this was the early 80s,
so that's a lot more money.
Maybe 150 thousand in today's dollars
or something, I was thinking.
And that's when I hit my financail low.
And then, actually it was one phrase I heard
that turned my life around, driving into work
I heard on the radio, thank God for PBS radio,
and for Conscious Media now and Internet and all that,
but on a PBS station they quoted Napoleon Hill saying
within every adversity is an equal or greater benefit.
And it was like a light bulb went off.
It was, just this inner voice said
I've got to remember this, this is the peace I need,
I've been so overwhelmed with problems.
And I pulled over on the shoulder of the freeway
and wrote it down because I knew I'd forget it.
I wrote it down and then I put it in big letters
above my phone in my office.
And then I put it in my words, I said
within every problem is an opportunity.
And then later on I added a phrase
from Bhagavad Gita
that we did a version of.
So there's nothing new in this,
this was written five thousand years ago.
The phrase was, even in the knocks of life
we can find great gifts.
And I literally started, I would just ponder that,
ponder that.
People would keep coming into my office,
we've got another problem.
We still haven't got a check from the distributor.
More problems came up.
And I would acknowledge the problem,
we'd get the problems right away.
But then I literally started asking myself okay,
what opportunities are here?
What benefits? What gifts?
And I would just listen for answers.
And I found I'd get answers.
And each of those three things are a little bit different.
What opportunities are here?
What benefits? What benefits can there possibly be
in almost being bankrupt?
Okay, I pondered that, and I got some answers.
I realized I'd been seeing myself
as the space cased artist that really didn't know
what he was doing and was waiting for
a big daddy to come along
and show me how to run my company.
And big daddy or big mama had not come along.
And I realized it's up to me
to take responsibility for this.
We were all pointing our fingers at other people
with all these problems.
It was never our fault, it was always the distributor
or this or that.
No, it was my fault.
Bankruptcy is the fault of the top management
and I was top management.
You know, I tried to bring in other people
to take over top management but it had not worked.
So I got, okay, the benefit is
I need to take responsibility, the buck stops here,
I'm going to make this work, how do I make this work?
As soon as I said that I got answers.
Well, you need another distributor,
give up on this distributor, they're going bankrupt.
Duh.
And the steps were very simple to take.
Within a year I was profitable.
I was debt free.
The company was cruising along
just like my dream and visualization.
Because you had dared to ask a question
that people normally, because fear is running the show
by that point, would not stop to ask themselves.
And your mind was alert to look for the clues
and guidance to that.
So there was still something very flexible
about your spirit and your mind
that even allowed you to ask those questions.
Yes, you could say that, right.
And you nailed it, fear.
Fear is the root of all the problems.
And love is the solution to all the problems.
When you really do what you love to do
and go for it and find what excites you and what works,
it starts working.
And that love overcomes all those fears.
Now you've written a couple books on the
subject, you have done interviews like this,
and you've talked to many.
So let's start dissecting a little bit
of what you found some of the really,
just kind of, key must dos are in this process.
If you're lucky enough to love something
and have a passion for it, which again,
because of fear, a lot of people haven't even
identified what they love.
Can you talk about that?
Just the first part about really getting to the point
where you can identify your passion
and what you really want.
Yeah, I think there's just two key steps.
The older I get the more simple I can put it,
the simpler I see things.
I think there's just two key steps.
The first is identifying what you love,
really finding out what you love to do,
what you want to do.
Oprah said if you don't know what you want to do,
the most important work you can do is to find out.
Yes.
Oprah's become a wonderful teacher, definitely.
But that is, that's the critical thing.
Find out what expands your heart,
what you love.
It's a feeling thing totally.
What excites you?
What makes your eyes shine?
What makes time stand still for you
when you're doing it?
Yes, yes.
Okay, let's take that for a moment and take
someone that's watching right now that might feel
a little stuck, maybe their job has gone away.
You know because we're in a recession at the moment.
And so you're overwhelmed with fear
and you have to work around through that
mechanism of fear that people are experiencing
to have the clear enough space to do that.
Yes, exactly.
But you can do what a therapist once called
lowering the gradient, you can lower the gradient.
The ideal to me is to do what you love
all the time, every moment.
I, early on, when things started working,
that was my guiding thing, do I love this moment?
Do I love this project?
Sometimes I love a project for a while
and then something happens and it's no fun anymore
so I just let it go.
That's the ideal, to do what you love every moment.
Okay, maybe you're very far from that ideal.
Maybe you just lost a job and have a mortgage
or rent and a family and all these obligations.
Okay, you need to take care of yourself
and fulfill those obligations.
It might even mean working in a job
you don't particularly like.
When I first started the company,
I knew nothing about financing or anything,
I had no money, so I said okay,
I've got to get some kind of job
and save 20 percent and put in to my company.
That was my first plan, which is not a bad plan.
I got a perfectly awful 40 hour a week job,
which I think is an inhumane amount
of time to work any job.
I would agree.
I know, even things I love I don't love to do
40 hours a week, whatever.
But I got a 40 hour a week job typesetting
and I started saving some money
and did my first few little projects
and that's how it started working.
So at first you might have to do something
that is not ideal, but at least covers the rent
and covers the basics.
But then you keep focused on that ideal
and you find even an hour a week
to lower the gradient.
Okay, find an hour a week., find two hours a week
to do what you love.
What do you love to do?
I heard of this Canadian writer
and I forget which one it was,
maybe Anne Beattie or something,
but she had four or five kids
and was just totally busy and overwhelmed.
But she decided to write longhand
two pages a day of her novel.
And if she couldn't find time during the day
she did it in bed.
Just before going to bed she'd write her two pages.
Well you write two pages a day, that adds up.
Sure does.
And she wrote her first novel and it did well.
And you're right, this gradient,
this baby step commitment is right,
Rome wasn't built in a day.
Right.
We are in such an impatient culture in general
that people are so attune now to instant gratification
that maybe this is the part of ourselves
we have to roll back
and start to have trust and faith again
in the fact, it doesn't matter if you're trying to
write the great American novel,
whether you're trying to lose weight, make more money,
it doesn't really matter.
It does start with those little baby steps, doesn't it?
Right, and it's all baby steps
every little step of the way.
So it's daring to dream
and make a plan.
And the plan can be at first just baby steps.
I'm going to find two hours a week
to focus on doing my dream.
Two hours a week, I'll find it.
And you can do that.
Yes, that's true.
I mean there's no excuse when you're talking
an hour, two hours a week, to not do it.
Right. There's no excuse.
So now you have no excuse,
again because, I think it's really important to look
almost mechanistically at how our minds
and our emotions work.
You're programmed, we're programmed,
all of humanity is programmed
with a good dollop of fear every day
of some kind or another.
Something's going down and, you know,
watch out or you're going to get cancer
and so on and so forth.
So you, from a mechanistic model,
you have a subconscious mind
and even a mind filled with this negative programming.
You have to override it so to speak
through constant positive focus.
Yeah, I used to think you had to
have a positive focus 51 percent of the time.
I wrote a book, A Visionary Life,
and even put that in there.
Then I heard the wonderful analogy of a plane.
It's not an analogy, it's reality.
A plane is off course 95 percent of it's time or more,
but the pilot keeps correcting over and over and over.
When I heard that I said, yes that's the story of my life.
You can be off course, you can be in fear even,
95 percent of the time or more.
But if you keep getting back,
you keep correcting, you keep remembering your dream
and taking whatever little baby steps you can
this week toward it, you get back on course.
You get off course again right away,
oh more fear, oh this is so hard,
oh life is a struggle, it's so hard to succeed.
Okay, you're off course.
Then you get back on.
No, I have this dream, I'm going for it,
I'm going to do this thing
and I'm putting an hour a week in toward this.
I'm taking this step, you're back on course.
So you can be off course most of the time.
You can be fearful most of the time.
You can be totally neurotic.
I had this sort of epiphany seeing Ross Perot on TV
one time, the first time I ever saw him.
I thought, he's a billionaire and the man is wacko.
And I realized now that I've met a lot of rich people,
rich people are just as neurotic.
And many are just as fearful as poor people.
They just have one thing going,
they dare to dream something and go for it.
You know, they have just as many fears and anxieties
and problems, but they have that piece of it,
that they keep moving toward a goal,
they keep focused on a goal
and at some point that dream
gets to become even an intention.
I am going to do this.
Once it becomes an intention,
all the fears and anxieties in the world
won't stop an intention.
Now you're getting into
some kind of deep cosmic soul purpose thinking now.
There has to be then embedded in that seed of that passion,
that love for what you want to do,
something that is far more powerful
than the force of fear.
Yes, yes, ultimately
our love is far more powerful than fear.
It literally is.
It's higher in our bodies,
our fear is centered low, real low.
I mean in worst cases of extreme fear
you can lose control of your sphincter muscle.
That's where fear is centered, down low.
Where love is in your heart, it's higher.
Love transcends fear.
And if you really do what you love to do,
if you dare to dream, it always does involve love
and in some ways serving others.
I do think the greatest key, at least for me
in my words, to the greatest secret of all,
I think is to love and serve yourself and others.
And keep that in mind, that will overcome fears.
When the fears arise, they're petty, they're self centered,
they're limiting, it's this little limited little me.
Eckhart Tolle keeps talking about the little me.
It's the little me saying, oh this is hard,
this is hard, life is hard,
you know, life is a struggle.
It's so hard to make money,
it's so hard to succeed.
That's the little me.
We're far greater than that.
We're far greater, more creative people.
We have just as much potential as anybody else.
We all have this amazing, amazing physical body,
this phenomenal brain, and this incredible connection
to some vast subconscious or whatever you want to call it.
Some people even just call it the universe.
We have this great, deep connection
that we can even
summon into our lives.
We can summon great power into our life
by doing what we love.
And you took a few practical steps
along the way.
One you decided, okay, I have to take responsibility,
I'm the boss I've been waiting for in my company
which is failing right now. (laughs)
Right, right, yes yes, right.
You became the boss, you started turning
it around, even within a year you started turning it around.
And there were a few little kind of,
I won't call them tricks, but tools that you use
to be able to repattern this in yourself
that you write about in The Greatest Secret of All.
Can you share just a couple of these little
functional things that you have people work with,
that you work with.
Yeah, to me,
maybe the most powerful thing of all
is finding the right affirmation in the moment.
Or just finding something in the moment
that gets you back on course.
Fortunately I wandered into this seminar when I was 28
led by this man named Ken Keyes, Jr.
who had written a book called
Handbook to Higher Consciousness in the 70s.
He understood something about our deep core beliefs
and that's the piece of the pie that he really knew
and could teach.
And he taught us the core belief process he called it.
And what it boils down to is
realizing that all these beliefs
that we've accepted as true in our lives,
and certainly seem true in our lives,
because we see them every day in our loves, they become...
You see evidence.
We see evidence in our lives.
If you're struggling to pay the rent,
well it's true, it's hard to pay the rent, it's a struggle.
Yes, well, life is a struggle, it's hard.
He showed us these beliefs are not
necessarily true in themselves.
There are many people with very different sets of beliefs.
So the beliefs are not true in themselves.
But they become true in our experience
if we believe them.
So it's very good to look at all our beliefs.
Look, how do we really think the world is?
Is the world a struggle?
Is the world some place that's limited in some way,
or scarcity? Is there scarcity in the world?
Is there scarcity in our lives?
Is it hard to succeed?
If so, those are just beliefs.
And we can change those beliefs.
And you can see evidence to the contrary.
Yes.
Around.
And once we change the belief,
we see evidence to the contrary in our lives.
So for me, when I hit my financial low,
one of the best things I did,
I've already said one of the best things,
I just heard that phrase,
within every adversity is an equal or greater benefit.
That was key.
The other best thing I did was the core belief process,
I did a very effective one that changed my life.
I was driving to the bank.
I'd gotten another credit card sent to me.
I had been living for years on
getting more credit cards, getting cash advances
and paying down the minimums of the other cards.
A lot of people can relate.
Yeah, right.
And I realized I was, I had all this anxiety,
my stomach was just churning
as I was going to the bank.
Oh, now I'm 65 thousand in credit card debt,
okay, that was, I remember thinking that number,
that was a pretty big number for me to grapple with.
And I felt this anxiety, and then I remembered,
oh this is the time to do the core belief process,
when you feel anxiety.
And I did, I went through these steps,
all they are is asking you eight really simple questions.
The first is, what is the problem?
That we know, we know that.
It's almost like you have to throw a bone
to that part of the mind that's trying to deal with,
that's trying to create problems for yourself, right?
Give it a bone.
Acknowledge it.
And really acknowledge the problem, right.
And that one we all know very quickly.
We can say, oh it's so hard,
it's so hard to succeed, it's hard to make money.
For me it was, I'm almost bankrupt
because I'm just an idiot with money, that's the problem.
Then two, it's really good to ask,
what are you feeling physically?
And just tune in, ah, I realized
my neck and shoulders were uptight,
my stomach was churning.
Three, what are you feeling emotionally?
And just nail the emotion.
Sometimes men especially will start going on and on and on
getting philosophical, no, just nail the emotion.
I feel anxiety.
I feel there's some kind of guilt
or sadness or, underneath it all
there's always fear.
There's always fear.
Okay, you acknowledge that fear.
I feel this fear.
Then you just say,
what tapes have I been running
is what we used to say, or
what's been going through my mind?
What am I telling myself repeatedly?
And you just out loud spill out all those thoughts.
Well I'm just an idiot with money, I just can't handle it,
it's just so hard.
You just run all those things
so you're consciously looking at them
rather than being this passive victim
of all these thoughts and feelings.
Then, five, a very good thing to do is to say
what's the worst that could happen?
In this situation what's the worst thing that can happen?
Well, I could go bankrupt.
Then you say, what's the very worst thing that can happen?
So you really look at your worst fears.
We tend to want to hide our worst fears.
We don't want to confront them.
We're afraid of them.
That little question force us to
open all those closet doors and look,
what are your worst deepest fears?
What's behind all this anxiety?
What is that fear?
For me, what I got down to is,
well I could die painfully and slowly
a drunken bum in a gutter somewhere
and no one would know or care.
I would just lay there...
Well you got to the bottom of it.
Yes, that was somewhere at the bottom.
And it usually brings up even some chuckles
because you realize the chance of your worst fears
coming true are very slim.
Very very slim.
Very remote.
So then you say, okay, what's the best case
in this scenario? What's the best thing that could happen?
I've done this, over the years, hundreds of times now
with hundreds of people.
Inevitably we get into our worst fears
with incredible energy and we get into it right away.
Then you say, okay, in this situation
what's the best that could happen?
And we go, huh, hmm, let me think.
And we have to think about it.
And it shows me, yes, we've been dwelling in fear.
We've been going through in the things
we've been telling ourselves the fear based scenarios
and very rarely have we even thought of
a good scenario.
We certainly haven't thought of
what is our ideal scene in this situation?
Or what good things could possibly happen?
We haven't even gone there usually.
So that question, what's your ideal scene in this situation?
What's the best that could happen?
Oh, I could find a new distributor
and the company could make a profit
and I could make a bonus that pays off my debt.
That turned out to be exactly what happened.
Exactly what happened.
Is that the final of the eight questions then?
No, there's one more and that is,
there's actually two more, so I think that was six.
Because then the one more is
what's preventing that best case scenario from happening?
Why isn't that happening?
Whatever you answer there is your deep underlying belief.
For me it was, well I'm a fool with money.
I'm out of control.
Say it in the simplest words you possibly can.
What is preventing you from achieving that ideal scene
in this situation?
Whatever comes up, that's the belief you have to replace,
you have to delete, how do you do that?
By the last question,
what affirmation completely contradicts that belief
and counteracts that belief
and turns it right around?
For me, I literally again, have pulled over
on the side of the freeway when I got it
because I was driving down the freeway
and I was thinking, okay,
my belief is I'm a fool and I'm out of control.
Okay, what affirmation directly contradicts that?
I came up with, I am sensible
and in control of my finances.
I'm creating total financial success.
And I added, in an easy and relaxed manner
in a healthy and positive way.
And again, I pulled over and wrote that down.
I wrote it down five times.
I put it up on my wall, I carried it in my pocket
in my billfold, I put it in my bathroom
on the mirror, I put it on my dresser,
in my bed, I kept it in front of me.
And whenever those anxieties would come up again,
whenever I thought of money anxiety would arise.
I'd just acknowledge the anxiety, okay,
but then I'd start affirming, I am sensible
and in control of my finances.
I am creating total financial success.
That affirmation was so powerful,
the first time I said it I felt it through my whole body,
I felt like very cell of my body resonate.
And as I kept saying it, it finally got through
my thick skull, oh yeah, you know,
finances aren't that complicated.
Money isn't that hard to master.
It's actually very simple.
All you need is very simple math
and all you need to do is make more money than you spend.
This is not a complex thing,
a ten year old can understand this concept.
So even I can.
And I affirmed that, I got that affirmation
and that's what turned around the whole thing.
That affirmation and looking at the benefits
and opportunities.
And you could feel it, I mean, it shifted you
literally on a physical chemical level
when you said these things out loud to yourself.
And what's interesting in this
is that oftentimes in the past
when we're looking at doing affirmations and the sort,
it requires, people fell they are required to
believe what they're saying.
But what you're saying, it sounds to me,
is no, you have to make a commitment
to saying it to yourself, a commitment
to look at the card, your commitment
is to engage with it
and the feelings will come with that.
You don't have to automatically believe
in your heart and soul, I am a success,
when you feel like a failure.
It's lying to yourself.
Can you talk about that.
Yeah, I've often thought about that.
I've never had to come to believe any of this.
I never say to people, I never say to myself,
you have to believe in an affirmation
or believe in anything.
No, these are powerful tools.
I say just do it, just try it,
just start affirming that you're,
not that you're successful now if you're not.
Don't affirm I'm now a millionaire
if you're struggling to pay the rent.
But find what works.
For me it was, I am creating total financial success.
Here I was on the verge of bankruptcy,
but I started affirming I am sensible
and in control of my finances.
I am creating total financial success.
If you say that, part of you accepts it.
I think the way it works is
your subconscious mind says yes to every thought.
So when you say I am sensible and in control,
I am creating total financial success...
That's data in.
Yes, data in, your subconscious says yes
and starts showing you how simple it is
and what the simple next step to take is.
But then, if you start saying oh but it's so hard,
so few people succeed, your subconscious says
yes it's so hard for you with that thought, yes.
That's the way it works.
And you're talking about genuine power,
symbolic and energetic power behind each of these words
that you're either looking at or you're uttering.
The subconscious mind, it's working off of
energy and symbols.
Yes, yes.
So it's truly going in regardless of belief
as you say.
Yeah, yeah, so there's nothing to believe.
Just know that we do have some very mysterious power
we'll never understand, but we can set it in motion.
And we set it in motion with finding
the right affirmation for us.
I am now creating success doing what I love.
I am now writing a brilliant book,
I am now doing my art in a way
that touches people's hearts so much
that they wish to pay 25 thousand for my painting,
whatever it is.
I want to see your paintings.
Yeah, right, right, right.
Yeah, no that's absolutely, that's a really
huge point that I think has been a big gap
for people to get over.
Because a lot of the metaphysical or new age thought is
you have to believe, you have to believe.
But what you're saying is,
and very appropriately contradicting that
and saying it's more than that,
it's beyond belief.
Yes. My wife gave me this frame that I talk about
in Greatest Secret of All that had
four words stamped into it.
Dream, imagine, believe, create.
My first thought when I saw it,
I thought this is the whole process.
And then my next thought was,
but there's really nothing to believe,
you don't have to believe in it at all.
You just dream, imagine and create.
But then I did think, well, you have to deal
with the beliefs you have that are
preventing you from creating it.
That's the work.
There's two essential things to do.
Dare to dream and go for it.
And then deal with all those old limiting beliefs
that are preventing you from taking those simple steps.
Makes perfect sense, of course.
And like you say, as you get older,
it becomes more distilled, the message is
distilled down to the real essential components
and you've helped a lot of people with this.
Let's talk about the Greatest Secret of All.
Let's spend a little time on that.
That's my favorite because
it's wonderful to be able to manifest what you want,
it's wonderful to even create the life of your dreams.
And as you do, just inevitably, you'll find yourself
reflecting on what's really important in life.
And what is important in life?
To me, I just,
I encourage everyone to ask these questions
because it's the words we find within
that really guide us.
Maybe the greatest secret of all,
it can be expressed in so many ways,
but definitely one way to express it is
it's finding our own inner guidance.
It's becoming our own teachers.
It's finding that the higher self
or that expansive master within
that guides each of us.
And we realize we're,
we don't trust other people totally any more.
We realize whatever they say to us comes through
their experience, even if they're a great teacher,
it comes through their experience and their life.
And that's very different from our experience and our life.
And their guidance for us might be absolutely
the worst possible thing in the moment for us.
The best possible thing is only to be found
within our own inner being.
That's where we find it all.
When I ask that voice within then,
what is the greatest secret of all?
I get a very simple answer which I've already said.
I just get, it's all about loving and serving
yourself and others.
And I even get, yes you gotta take care of yourself first.
You dare to dream your fulfillment
and take care of yourself
because you need to be fulfilled
before you can really help others become fulfilled.
It's true and you've created an environment,
well, like the little plaque on the wall says,
it's considered to be the most wonderful place to work,
best place to work.
So obviously your publishing company
is producing all of these beautiful books
with beautiful messages, so you're serving in that way.
You're somehow trickling down your own
philosophy which you live, to your employees
or they wouldn't be so happy to work here, right?
So you're serving in that way, you seem to have
a lot of happy campers around here.
Yeah we sure do. We sure do.
And that has to be the missing link in the new
way of doing business and the new kind of success,
this connectedness with each other.
It is missing in a lot of companies and it surprises me.
To me it just seems obvious.
When I first started the company,
before we even made money, I remember
I just happened to read an in flight magazine
about, I'd never read any business articles
but this happened to be something in front of me
while I was on a plane, so.
It was about a Swiss hotel that was failing
and run down, and they fired the manager
and all the owners sat around and went to hire
this other manager.
And the manager said, well here's the deal,
you hire me, I'll put a third of the profits
to go to employees, and a third will go to you owners.
And some of the owners even said,
you mean you're giving employees
as much as you're giving owners?
And he says yes, that's the deal, take it or leave it,
because that's what will work.
To me it became so obvious that this formula
is just a no brainer for success.
The first year, he turned it around and made that
hotel profitable, and the employees got a bonus check
worth about two weeks of their salary.
After seven years when the article was written,
the employees got a bonus check at the end of the year
worth over eight months of their salary.
Their annual salary.
Beautiful.
The hotel looked beautiful, the employees were happy.
Were the bosses happy?
The bosses were ecstatic.
And I said oh yeah, that's how to run a company.
You tell employees, half the profits go to employees,
half the profits go to owners.
First you need to retain whatever you need to retain
for your growth or whatever, you retain that,
but you split the rest.
People say that's so generous.
It's not generous, it's just smart business.
Because I know, I can show on paper,
because I give half my profits to my employees,
every employee, even the part time guy in shipping,
every employee gets a profit sharing substantial check.
Because of that I make more than twice the profits.
I absolutely know it.
That's fabulous and so right on.
Yeah, I know, it just makes sense.
They say, you know,
people think it's so noble and generous
and it's not at all, it's just...
Happy people, happy business.
And it's where I make more money.
In the long run I make more.
I can even show in percentages most publishers
make a five to ten percent pre tax profit,
most print publishers.
We make at least three or four times that.
So right there, it's proof, it's proof.
I make more money by giving my people,
every dollar I retain, every dollar I get as a bonus,
I give a dollar to my employees.
Well, obviously you've put,
you've given a lot of thought to all of this clearly.
I mean, even though you say you're lazy
and you don't real business articles,
and it sounds like that's all true.
Yeah, it is.
But you have given a lot of thought to it
and you have followed that love, that passion, that heart.
And you, it sounds like you really insist
that the people around you follow their passion
and heart as well, and you all raise the ship together.
Yeah, I encourage each one of them to find,
you know, what they love to do and to do it.
I get people here that love what they're doing
in the company and those are the ones that stay.
Yeah, very good.
Well, so,
I'm totally enjoying this conversation
and listening to you.
Any other final thoughts before we wrap up here.
You're obviously living the life
that you saw all those years ago.
You work Tuesday through Thursday afternoons
for sure, pretty much?
Everything else is negotiable.
Everything else is negotiable and you can do
what you wish with it, which now that's
a dream in and of itself for most people.
Anything else you'd like to share at this point
because you have to still be going through
your own growth and learning.
Sure, oh yeah, it's an endless wonderful process.
Gee, this morning I just had such thoughts,
I walked out and it was so beautiful,
the big storm clouds were there
and the sun was shining through,
it was almost like an Ansel Adams photo.
And I have a beautiful house on a hill
with these great views, and I thought
the beauty of it all is just overwhelming.
And I thought what is beauty?
And I realized beauty is what opens your heart.
That's why we love beautiful art.
That's why we love people, some people
that are so beautiful they just open our heart, you know.
And just having some kind of beauty
or acknowledging the beauty in our lives
is a wonderful way to open our hearts.
And that's the key to a life well lived, an open heart.
And the key to success.
Doing what you love,
you never have to work then.
I never liked that word work.
There's some good things, there is a great work ahead of us
as Riane Eisler says, overcoming
the established dominator model.
Both on a political national level
and anything personal, any attempts that we have
to dominate or exploit others we need to
totally get rid of and replace with partnership model,
a pure partnership.
The dominator model is based on fear
and there's a need to control.
We need to replace it all with partnership
which is based on love and total respect,
respect for all other people.
That's the key to the solution of the world's problems.
We need to respect everyone in the world
and work in partnership with them.
We need to quit bombing people
and say we're stuck together on this planet
as one dysfunctional family, how do we get along?
How do we get along?
Well, let's see, quit bombing people for a start,
and quit killing people, and sit down and negotiate
and see how we can work together
as one global family.
And that starts one decision and thought
individually at a time.
Yes, yes, one little step at a time.
So that's the great work ahead of us.
On that note, I thank you so much for taking
the time out of your not so busy schedule. (laughs)
Yeah, right, I have nothing else to do today.
Thanks for getting up.
Thank you Regina.
Marc has written a few books which you can check out
by visiting his site newworldlibrary.com.
The book we spoke about today is titled
The Greatest Secret of All
which you can also buy in kindle form through Amazon.
He's got it figured out; love, passion, and persistence.
Until next time, thanks for watching CMN.
(soft music)